Hello everyone!

Similarly to...everyone else, today I'd like to talk to you about one of my big
aha moments in mathematics. Now, as you might be able to infer from the title,
this is going to involve visualizations of some flavor, and possibly some
geometric reasoning. I'm a particularly visual person, and (while I know visual
intuition can be _misleading_ sometimes), I think that can also be quite
powerful. As the say, a picture is worth a thousand words. So, let's jump right
into it.

Here's a relatively straightforward sum identity. I think that some people
proved this in Math 55, or maybe in Math 30. Does anyone have an idea for how to
do it?

That's right --- induction. You induct on n, add k+1 to both sides, and show
that it has the desired form. Bingo bongo, bob's your uncle, back at the ranch
it's gin o'clock.

But now let me ask you another question (please don't answer this one because
then you'd ruin the buildup for the rest of the audience) --- what does this
_mean_ ? Or, more succinctly,

Why should you expect the formula to look like this?

When I first encountered this identity in junior year of high school, this was
the question I wrestled with. Ultimately, indution just really wasn't doing it
for me. Now, that could be because I just fundamentally didn't understand how
induction actually _works_, but that wasn't the only problem. Really, I was
wrestling with something many of us are familiar with, which is the dichotomy
between _proof_ of a result and _understanding_ a result. Here, proof allowed me
to trust that the identity held and was correct, but it didn't inform me as to
_why_ it was correct.

Yet, every teacher I asked about it simply referred me back to the same
inductive proof I'd seen before.




These things were big realizations for me, because it was
one of the first times I felt I had come up with an idea for how to think about
something on my own. Without further ado, let's get right into it.
